# Easy Player

Improving your instrumental playing requires daily practice, and you may often give up without making much progress.  
Easy Player aims to bring the joy of playing to those who have given up because they can't get good at it.  
Easy Player is played using the M5Stack.  

# Environment

It is built with Visual Cold's PlatformIO extension installed on a Mac.
There is a great article on Qiita about PlatformIO, please refer to it.

https://qiita.com/search?q=platformio+m5stack

Build with PlatformIO and install it on M5Stack.

# How to play

Use the buttons on the M5Stack to play.  

- A Button
    - A melody has been registered in advance, and pressing the A button will switch to the following note.  
    - The note's length is determined by the interval between A button presses.  
    - Press the A button with your feeling to enjoy the atmosphere of playing.  
- B button
    - Increases the volume by one.
    - The initial value is 0, and no sound is played, so press it a few times at first.
    - After the maximum value, it returns to 0.
    - The bar on the right shows the current value.  
- C button
    - The sound will stop. If you press it at the right time, you may be able to create a staccato or swing effect.  

## Register a song

The notes in [src/melody.h](src/melody.h) is the melody data.

```
int16_t notes[] = {
	65, 62, 60, 65, 62, 60, 65, 67,
	69, 72, 69, 69, 67, 65, 67, 72,
	72, 69, 74, 72, 69, 65, 67, 69,
	62, 60, 65,
};
```

src/melody.h is generated by executing the Ruby script [melody.rb](melody.rb).

```
% ruby melody.rb
```

The melody is converted at the end of [melody.rb](melody.rb).  
Here, the zousan variable contains the melody of "Zousan" which is Japanese children's song.  

```
zousan = "F4DC FDC FGAC5A4AGFG C5CA4 D5CA4F GADCF"
define_melody zousan
```

Melody is represented by scales + octaves (optional).
The scale C C# D D# E F F# G G# A A# B represents the 12th note of the scale.  
The octave is four at the center C and increases or decreases by 1 for each octave shift. If no octave is specified, the octave will be the same as the previous note. The initial value is 4.

C4 is center C.

## LICENSE

[MIT](LICENSE)